So now from point of sales data
let's go to media planning.
Now, I want to give you examples
of how companies can go ahead and
collect some data,
sometimes themselves and
sometimes by the aid of other companies
to get a sense of audience engagement.
So in radio, for example,
there are companies out there that
can collect this type of data.
So Kantar Media, for instance,
collects a lot of data, in terms of who's
listening to different radio shows,
how is the popularity of
different stations, and so on.
There are other companies as well that
collect this type of data, for example,
Nielsen Audio.
Again, many companies nowadays
try to get a sense of
audience engagement at the radio stations.
You can think about these kinds of
engagement even at the TV level.
So here, you'll soon collect a lot
of data which is from the TV level.
How will they do that?
With a setup box.
So this is the box which is would
go along with your cable box.
What are they trying to do here?
They're trying to basically record who are
the people who are watching a particular
TV station, who is it in the family,
and then the aggregate
at different households to get a sense
of how popular is a particular TV show,
how popular different channels, and so on.
So again, Nielsen is not
the only company doing this.
There are many other companies as well,
and
other companies following their example.
Again, Grand Track is a company that
basically collects information,
again about TV engagement.
There's slightly different
ways of doing it,
but the overall idea is exactly the same.
What would we want to do in these
kind of issues, TV or radio?
Get a sense of how popular is a particular
show or a particular channel.
What are the kinds of
questions that can be answered
with these kinds of data that's available?
So for example, who's watching what show?
As a brand manager, or
in fact as a TV station manager, we would
like to know which shows are popular?
Which shows potentially
can be funded next year?
How is the viewership
pattern changing over time?
And for example, if you start thinking
about viewership pattern, how should I be
spending different kinds of money on
different types of ads in these TV shows?
So broadly, these kinds of questions can
be answered by getting information about
audience engagement and
that's what companies like Nielsen,
companies like Kantar Media,
that's what they're doing when
they collecting different types of data
either to radio shows or for TV shows.
So now we'll talk about
social media analytics.
So social media is becoming
extremely popular.
There are many,
many people on Facebook, Twitter.
You name the different formats,
people are there talking about brands,
talking to each other, and so on.
So clearly, when you think about
it yourself as a brand manager,
you start thinking about what
are customers talking about?
You need data about social media,
and there are companies out there
that'll help you get that data.
For example, Hootsuite is a company
that does a lot of information and
data collection on things going
on on Facebook or Twitter.
So it's a platform that
collects some data.
Sprout Social is another example.
So there are many companies out there
that are collecting information on
what customers are saying and
doing on social media.
So what are the kinds of questions
that can manager can answer
using this type of data?
The first one is its audience engagement.
If I'm running a campaign on Facebook,
if I'm running a campaign on Twitter,
how many people are responding?
That gives me a sense on
how good that campaign is.
Another example might be more along the
lines of thinking about brand mentions.
Is our branding mentioned more
times than our competitors?
What's our share of voice?
So for example, as we just saw,
we could track for
instance how many times Wharton came
up in the last month on Twitter.
You can start doing the search for
your own brand and
see how it compares to your competitors.
You can also start thinking
of doing sentiment analysis.
So it's not just about mentions,
or how is it being mentioned.
Is it being mentioned in a positive way?
Is it being mentioned in a negative way?
How is it being mentioned?
And then you can start
thinking about linking for
instance, what might be going on in the
economy, all different kinds of issues,
together with brand mentions to see
how they might change over time.
So social media data is very,
very powerful.
There are companies out there that can
help you collect this type of data to see
how your company's trending on social
media as compared to your competitors.
So now,
we'll talk about another type of data.
This is broadly categorized as web data.
This would be basically all the different
kind of searches that you're doing on
the internet, all the different websites
that people might be visiting, and so on.
Of course,
there's a wealth of information out there.
First is, you can start looking
at your own company's website and
seeing what customers are looking at.
But at the same time, you also want to
know what's happening in the market place,
and that's where these
other companies come in.
For example, compete.com is
a website that allow you to look at
what people are looking
at different website.
There are of course, many other
companies that do the same thing.
For instance, Homescore is another company
that collects this type of data as well.
So are many other companies.
So this is another example and
lots of other company that
basically collect information on
what are people searching for,
which websites they're visiting,
and so on.
What does a data stream look like?
Again, I went to compete.com and
looked for the type of searches and
the type of people who are coming
in on the Wharton website.
That's what it looks
like in the last month.
So it gives you information, for
instance, on unique visitors and so on.
So besides, of course, going out and
looking at a company that collect
a wealth of information,
you can have data from your own website.
For instance, as an example, Etsy.com
is a company where you can get a lot of
information, for instance,
on what are people looking at.
So Etsy has this data, they can look
at what people are searching for and
get a sense of what products are becoming
popular, what websites, for example,
are becoming popular, and so on.
So electively,
web data gives you a lot of information
in terms of what your
customers are looking at.
Either on your own website or
competitors website and so on.
Broadly, this type of
data helps you answer
questions which are very
managerially oriented.
You can stop thinking about
any kind of campaign.
You can broadly categorize the type of
spending that you're doing in terms of
earned media, paid media, and owned media.
Owned media basically is your own website.
Paid media is any kind of engagement
that you're doing in terms of
aim for that media.
And earned media are people who
are organically coming to you.
If you start thinking about collecting
this type of web data, it gives you
a sense of what are the other for
many kind of campaigns that you're doing.
So again, the type of data and
the type of questions you're trying
to answer have to go hand in hand.
Finally, of course, when you start
thinking about the Holy Grail,
it's mobile data.
That's where many,
many companies are making inroads.
Think about Facebook.
Of course,
it started it off as a desktop, but
many more people are accessing
Facebook using their mobile phones.
Facebook has this data.
They know where people
are accessing Facebook and
they know the location as well.
That's a wealth of information.
As another example, there's Foursquare.
Again, this is a website in
which people can check in,
usually through their mobile phone.
Foursquare again has a lot of
information on where people are,
where they're checking in,
what else is around them.
So many, many such company are basically
collecting this information.
On the flip side, there are company
such as Flurry Analytics.
What do they do?
They get a sense of, hey,
how's your app doing in terms
of over all customer engagement.
And they can also start helping you
monetize the app and make it better,
in terms of people accessing it easily and
trying to make more money out of the app.
What are the type of managerial
questions that can be answered?
For example,
is customer search on the mobile
platform different from the desktop?
What information to show
customers based on their location?
So think about Four Square for instance.
They have information on where you are.
Should the information they show you be
different depending upon your location?
Probably yes.
And of course,
another type of question could be,
are the coupons that can be
sent based on your location?
All of these questions can be answered
by looking at mobile data, and again,
there are companies out there that
can help you collect these data.
So we just covered a lot
about how media industries,
companies in the media world track
what are the customers are doing.
So, should we care about all of these
questions if you let see you're not in
the media world?
My answer to you is, absolutely.
Why?
Because this is the way of thinking.
Again, it’s a customer centric approach.
So if you think about the kinds
of questions that media companies
are interested in, they are interested
in who are their customers?
What are they watching?
What else are they watching?
What programs for
example are cannibalizing each other?
These are questions which are relevant
no matter which industry you're in.
In terms of thinking about it
from a customers perspective.
Let's say on the credit card business.
They are two big giants there,
MasterCard and Visa.
If Lexi got into the MasterCard business,
well,
you could want to know
who your customers are.
What else are they using?
When are they using a Visa
card versus a MasterCard?
Is your business being
cannibalized sometimes by Visa?
Again, these are questions which
cut across the type of industries.
What is the common theme around them?
Being customer-oriented.
So taking good data from customers, trying
to gather as much clean data as possible,
I think it's a valuable
input when you start making
critical managerial decisions.